Hello acquired listeners. We are coming
to you today with a very fun ACQ2
interview with our buddy Andrew Ross
Sorcin. Yep. We got to know Andrew over
the summer for our Radio City show where
we had a delightful cameo with us and
he's got a new book 1929 and he's doing
a book tour and we said hey do you want
to come on ACQ2 given you're doing the
book tour and rather than just talking
about the book why don't we talk about
how the heck do you do all of this that
you do like we're dying just making one
show you know you do like four things
every day. So, there's the New York
Times Deal Book, the Daily Newsletter.
There's the Dealbook Summit, which
happens every December. There's, of
course, that he co-created the show
Billions. He is every single morning
from 6:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. Eastern on
CNBC doing Squawkbox. He's written Too
Big to Fail and 1929,
>> two major books. Yeah, this was a very
fun conversation.
>> So, today's conversation is a little bit
how does he do it all? But also we
realize Andrew's never actually told
this story before of how it all came to
be. How did he start a business daily
email newsletter in 2001? I mean this is
over a decade before strategy. I don't
know 15 years before the era of Substack
doing it inside
now the biggest newspaper in the US I
think in the world and now every
December doing Dealbook Summit which to
me is kind of the flagship canonical
business interview forum in the world I
mean that's more than that business
technology politics so listeners this
conversation was especially interested
to David and I for naval gazing reasons
but we think Andrew's story is just
fascinating it really illustrates the
shift in the media landscape and I am
just so interested in how he maintains
the quality bar that he does across such
a wide wide set of activities. So please
enjoy our conversation on the insane
productivity of Andrew Ross Sorcin.
Andrew, you're wearing something
different than you were wearing on
Squawkbox this morning. How does that
work?
>> Yeah. What's your wardrobe change
throughout the day look like?
>> So I did that for you to be honest with
you.
>> Really?
>> Yes. Usually I'm in a suit basically all
day. I kind of sleep in a suit with a
tie. [laughter]
And then I thought to myself, we're
doing this podcast. There might be
video. These guys are probably going to
wear like sweaters or look cool and I'm
going to look like some like old man in
a suit. I'll put a sweater on. So that's
what's going on here. [laughter]
>> Okay. So Andrew, I've always thought of
you as a New York Times reporter. I've
thought of you as the founder of
Dealbook. You also do Squawkbox.
How do you think about that? Especially
since that's over by what, 9:00 a.m.?
>> It is over by 9:00 a.m., but it's a full
3 hours. Uh, which often times feels
like um a lot longer than that. Not in
the moment. I think we have a ball in
the moment. But for me, it's the way I
begin my day and all the things that I
try to do. You know, in many ways I'm
doing Dealbook oftentimes finishing it
up even before Squawkbox starts and then
doing Squawkbox and then going back to
Dealbook and going to other projects and
they all sort of inform each other in
interesting ways. About 15 years ago, I
want to say in 2011, I used to be a
guest on Squawkbox often and they they
called me up and they said, "Hey, would
you want to be the host of the show?"
And I thought, "That's crazy. I I can't
read a teleprompter. I've never done
this before. This is insane.
>> Was one of the other hosts retiring or
like how did this
>> A couple things had happened actually. I
don't know if you remember a legendary
journalist named Mark Haynes who was the
original host of Squawkbox and then was
on a show called Squawk on the Street
passed away and they were going to
reshape Squawk on the Street and Carl
Kentia who was one of the three hosts of
Squawkbox was going to move to that show
and so they were looking for somebody to
put in in his chair and I thought you
know I love my job at the times. I'd
been there since I was 18 years old and
they were willing to have me do the show
in the morning and also allow me to
continue doing a lot of the other work
that I enjoy doing, I could have the
best of both worlds. This would be
great. And as long as I could be awake
at that hour. Now, I was always up
early. So, the the up early was not the
hard part, though. I don't think I was
up early with makeup on and lights. I
was always up early because I was
publishing Dealbook, our newsletter,
which typically was going out between 7
and 8 o'clock in the morning. So, I
always did have to get up early, but I
was often in my pajamas. I wasn't, you
know, interviewing people.
>> And if you need that time to publish
Dealbook, now you don't have that time.
>> Yes and no. So, a couple of things. The
Dealbook team has grown. So, that
actually was a huge benefit.
And also I end up spending usually about
an hour in the morning before Squawkbox
starts sort of making last tweaks and
and things to the Dealbook newsletter.
And that's actually one of the great
ways that I sort of read in as they say
in the TV business to learn about
everything that's going on sort of as
I'm doing my last licks at at the
newsletter to make sure every
everything's in order.
>> What time are you getting up? What time
is your day starting?
>> Right. This is 5 to 6:00 a.m. now that
you're doing the last minute tweaks. 5
to 6:00 a.m. Eastern.
>> So, my day usually begins around 4:30 in
the morning. That's usually when I wake
upish. I'd say I lie in bed with my
phone under the covers like looking at
email texts that came in overnight,
Slacks often times around dealbook and
things like that. And then I'm
oftentimes writing, if you read dealbook
at the top, it says, "Good morning,
Andrew here." I'm writing that in the
morning every morning. That's because I
need to see where we are in terms of
like what we're going to really, you
know, lean into for the top of the
newsletter. Oftentimes trying to change
the subject line or other things like
that as we try to get more readers.
Yeah. It's very clear whenever I open it
up that that is a lead. That is a hook.
This is a pitch to me of the rest of
this newsletter is interesting. Here's
why. Read on.
>> That's the goal. So if that's working
for you, that will knock on the wood.
[laughter] That's great.
>> So are you sending that from the news
desk at CNBC?
>> No. So the button is being pressed
actually in Europe by two of my
colleagues, Michael Dillered, who's
actually been with me in Dealbook for
about 20 years now, and Bernard Warner,
who work overnight, he lives in Italy,
actually. and they're working with a
copy editor doing some of the last
minute changes and then usually we're
doing a little bit of slacking back and
forth in the morning before before
things go out.
>> They're later in the day. They've had
their coffee when they're hitting the
>> they've had their coffee. They they've
been fixing, adding, sometimes
completely rewriting and changing the
mess that we've made, you know, out of
New York overnight.
>> How do you think about the content of
the newsletter? Are those stories
created in service of creating a
cohesive newsletter or are you trying to
create a newsletter out of the most
interesting business stories of
yesterday?
>> Combination of both. So I think for the
purpose of the newsletter, we're
thinking about how can we make the
reader armed and dangerous before their
9:00 meeting or their breakfast in the
morning or wherever they're headed off
to. Deal book actually transformed
itself over the last and we're coming up
on 25 years of doing this. You know, in
the beginning it was really for the
world of dealmakers. It was M&A bankers
and lawyers and accountants and people
in in that ecosystem.
And then increasingly CEOs started to
read it and board members and strategic
dev groups and then regulators and
politicians started to read it. So I
think we sort of shifted our focus
especially after the financial crisis of
2008 to really sort of try to capture
the intersection of business and policy
and really connect the dots between lots
of different storylines. And so every
morning I think we're trying to find you
know as much scoopy original stories but
also be able to try to take a story
that's in the news and spin it forward
if we can. Hm. We're sort of starting in
media rest here. Let's go back to the
beginning. Let's go back to the start of
Dealbook, the newsletter before there
was a summit. I don't think people
realize how early you were to the email
game
>> or to the times. I mean, you made the
quip earlier in our conversation about
you started at, you know, when you were
18 at the time. You literally started at
age 18, right, at the New York Times.
That's not a joke.
>> All right, let's go there. How'd that
happen? Okay, so backstory is I'm 15
years old. I got to go back three years.
All I wanted to do is be in media. Not
necessarily as a journalist. Actually,
the business side of media was more
interesting to me. And I was selling ads
for the school newspaper and then
ultimately created my own magazine in my
high school in Scarsdale, New York
called the Sports Page magazine. And the
purpose of the magazine was as much
about sports journalism as much as it
was about selling ads and trying to
capture a particular audience. In this
case, high school-aged boys, which were
harder to get to than high school-aged
girls at the time. The magazines would
be distributed across the country.
Inside high schools, advertisers would
pay, kids would write the articles about
professional sports as if they were
writing Sports Illustrated.
So, we did it and about a year into this
project, New York Times wrote a little
article about this little endeavor.
My mother used to drive me down to the
New York City to different advertising
agencies because I'd have to go sell my
ads and they were cheap. I mean, cheap
on a relative basis, like 900 bucks,
1,200 bucks for a full page ad, blah,
blah, blah.
>> Yeah. But for you as a high school
student, this is amazing.
>> Huge. Anyway, it succeeded and failed by
the time I was about 18 years old.
[laughter]
It succeeded in that we we had gotten
all these high schools to agree to to
take it. Some schools were getting it.
Some schools weren't. And I will be
honest, we made a whole bunch of rookie
errors that that a great business leader
would not have. We used to send mail by
Federal Express, for example, because we
thought that that would make it look
like we were really like professional.
>> Meanwhile, your mail, which
>> was a great mistake. And then we had
hired a printer, actually, the same
printing company that was printing Wired
magazine at the time. And we were
supposed to drop ship. We were moving
from black and white to full color and
we totally just misestimated
what the cost was going to ultimately be
and that was the end of that. But it was
one of the great educations of my life
and as a result it helped me I think get
my little foot in the door of the New
York Times when I was 18 years old. I
used to read a guy named Stuart Elliot
who was the advertising columnist at the
New York Times. He I mean he was like a
god to me. I mean, most people, you
know, read the front page of the paper,
the sports section. I would go to like
page C6 to read what Stuart had to say.
So, I could go down to these meetings
with the advertising agencies and
pretend like I knew what I was talking
about. And all I wanted to do was work
for this guy. And I was trying to find
all these different ways to get into the
Times and get to him. And I used to go
home during high school and call him on
the telephone to try to try to get a
gig. And then finally he took me out to
lunch and somehow I convinced him to let
me stay. And then there was a guy named
Glenn Crayon who was running the
business section and he let me stay. And
so I used to come every day with a
visitor pass. There's a union at the
time. So they didn't really like this
whole idea. So they didn't really know
about it actually. I just would come
every day and I'd stand and I'd xerox
and staple. I had no intention of
putting two words together let alone a
sentence. This is 1995
and
happily an editor who had no idea how
old I was. I was wearing a suit with a
tie back then and she thought I was like
a real person and she assigned me a
story to write and that's how it all
started.
>> No way. Like a mistaken identity thing
is how you wrote your first piece at the
time.
>> I think she thought I was like a young
maybe news clerk graduate from college.
She overheard me talking about this
thing called the internet back in 1995
and she thought, "Oh, he may he seems to
know what's going on."
>> Do do you remember the piece?
>> Oh, absolutely. It was the silliest
piece, but it was I mean, I love it so
much. It was You're going to laugh. It
was a piece about the noise that modems
make back when we used to
>> where we actually used to write the word
modem, a device that transmits data over
a phone line. [laughter] And all these
adults
>> Well, now you need that again. Nobody
knows what it is. So,
>> nobody even knows what my kids don't
know what a modem is. And she wanted to
understand what that noise was. That
like,
>> you know, that that weird little high
pitch noise. And I was trying to explain
to her that the noise was they were
mating the two the two modems were
talking to each other. [laughter]
>> And that's that was the first first
article out out of the game.
>> So, did you start full-time like
>> No, sorry. I went to Cornell. I was
going to be like a camp counselor that
summer and then they asked me to stay
for the rest of the summer. Then I went
off to Cornell and then as I at Cornell
I would continue writing for for the
paper freelance stories and things and
then my junior year I went off to London
school economics for part of the year
and ended up writing a lot in the
afternoons because school as you might
imagine was like over in London at like
2:30 in the afternoon which was like 9
or 10 in the morning. So I would often
be writing articles almost every day,
little articles, but it was just a great
sort of education for me.
>> I want to go to the beginning of
Dealbook.
I am still astonished at how early this
was in email. I mean you look at when
did Substack start? 2016 17
>> 2016 17. Yeah.
>> Ben Thompson started writing 2011.
>> 2013 I think it was 2013. Yeah. I had no
idea that Dealbook predated all of this.
>> That was a really remarkable period. So,
yeah, it's 2001.
I had lived in London after I went to
Cornell. I've been covering mergers and
acquisitions, trying to break his
stories and be as competitive as we
could be. I get back to New York. I'm
supposed to cover M&A. I'm thinking,
okay, this is this is going to be easy
pickings. I thought it was hard in
London because the New York Times, you
know, wasn't the local paper. And I
started to meet bankers and lawyers and
people in that whole netherworld and
they'd say, "Sorcin, you seem like a
nice kid, but you know, we get the Times
at home and I read the front page,
sometimes in the sports section, and
then I leave it with my wife and I take
the Wall Street Journal with me on the
train." And that was like a dagger to
the heart. That was like dagger to the
heart. I was like, "Oh my god, how am I
going to make this work?"
And I thought, "Well, you know what? I
spend an inordinate amount of time
racing around the internet trying to
find little bits and nuggets of things
and everybody else is doing the same
thing. And if I could put that in a
report every day and then effectively
almost bypass the physical paper and go
straight to their inbox since they seem
to be claiming that they're leaving the
paper at home, maybe this is the answer.
>> And there have been a history of
newsletters on Wall Street, but they
were faxes, right?
>> Yeah. Yeah, I mean you could get all
sorts of, you know, analyst reports back
then, people would fax the analyst
reports for the most part. A lot of
stuff was going by fax. In fact, when we
first started Dealbook, if I remember
correctly, there was a number of
subscribers who had their, you know,
assistants back then, they called them
secretaries, call and say, "Could you
fax us dealbook?" That was like a
regular thing. Could you please fax us
dealbook? And I remember always being
like, "Well, but there are links in it,
and if you click on the links, you can
read the whole story. [laughter]
and they didn't really get that. So that
was the sort of original conceit and and
inside the times
I will say there was sort of support but
sort of marginal because
I think most people didn't understand
what we were trying to do and the other
piece was part of the conceit was we
were going to link you oftentimes to our
competitors. So we were going to provide
links to the Wall Street Journal or the
Financial Times or oftentimes back then
there were a lot of local papers that
were doing actually incredible business
coverage. So, you know, when Lucent was
buying Alcatel,
or rather I should say Alcatel was
buying Lucent, you know, we would
translate parts of Leond, we would send
you to the Trenton, you know, Times,
give you what they were saying about a
deal or what the local issue was in
Dallas if there was some, you know,
something going on in the oil patch or
something like that. So, we were linking
people all over the place and into SEC
filings and other things like that. But
I think as a newsroom there was a little
bit of discomfort let's just say about
that whole concept for a while.
>> There must have also been a ad sales and
business model question too right
>> well in the beginning. So a couple
things I was really trying to launch
this thing in the ashes of what was this
was the dotcom bust had just happened.
And it wasn't that we were in still in
the boom. The bust had happened and
there were real concerns just about the
economics of everything. The New York
Times actually had what was going to be
a tracking stock for its dot business
and that looked like it was starting to
go off the table, if you will, given
what was happening in the marketplace.
In any event, their view, I think, if I
got to go back and look, I was actually
trying to find some of these old notes.
I think they thought that the TAM to put
that in a I don't think we ever used the
phrase TAM back then was 30,000
subscribers [laughter] for free.
>> And what what is it today if you're
willing to share?
>> Oh, we're we're over a million. We're
over a million subscribers.
>> This sounds very like Ben and my own
journey. You know, in the early days, we
used to be like, oh, there's, you know,
there can't be more than 10,000.
>> There's 10 20,000 people who will listen
to this.
>> Who would listen to this? Yeah.
[laughter] Yeah. So, you know, and I had
this thought that we get the whole thing
paid for by advertising. I I was not
looking to, you know, charge for it.
Really, the whole goal was to get the
brand of the New York Times out in front
of this audience more than anything
else.
And I told them that we were going to
make money on day one. I said we would
not do this unless we made money on day
one. And we we did. Our original
advertiser was Brooks Brothers was our
first advertiser. Awesome. Brooks
Brothers is still in business, but only
by a hair, I think. I mean, I think
they've gone in and out of business a
couple of times.
>> Were you doing the ad sales?
>> I was not doing the ad sales. So, the
good news about the New York Times at
that point, and at continues to be the
case, but there really is a a church and
state wall between between the two, we
also had a currency exchange, if I
remember, was another advertiser that
was one of the early ones. But anyway,
within a couple of months, it felt like
the thing had sort of caught fire and
all of a sudden there were people who
were, you know, sending me emails
saying, you know, how do I subscribe?
I'd like to subscribe. We get the, as I
said, the phone calls from different
CEOs saying, can you fax it to my boss
or whatever it is? And we were we were
off to the races.
>> Was there a cool dynamic where people
who you were covering would subscribe
and then would reply to the emails?
>> Oh, yeah. Yeah, I mean that was actually
I mean even to this day that's the
coolest part about it which is just the
audience is so crazy crazy I mean in
some of the names that that get it every
day that often times they would reply I
mean people used to send us they still
do I get PDFs of decks you know about a
deal that's going to be coming within
two days or you know ahead of time
someone's leaking us something or people
are replying to this saying you know I'm
invol I'm involved in this transaction
and by the way you didn't get this right
I want to tell you what actually really
happened
>> what a great reporting channel just the
replies to
>> Yeah. Yeah. No, the replies are a huge
since just that immediate feedback that
you get and that actually was a huge
sort of plus. I think it's funny now I
think that is so common and normal but
back then 25 years ago there was no
feedback loop in that way. This really
was one of the first because you know we
didn't have Twitter or or X or any of
these other social media platforms
didn't exist back then. So this was sort
of like an original way to do that.
>> All right. All right, I got to ask like
what is the meta game here? What's going
on when you do get a reply that said,
"Actually, I'm involved in this deal.
You're not getting this right. Here's
the real thing." Obviously, there's an
incentive at play to share that with
you. How does that enter into how you
decide to absorb information when you
get it?
>> So, my view is that every source
has some motivation for why they're
talking to you. And often times, if not
all the time, it is self motivated,
meaning like there is something that
they believe benefits to them. I think
it's important to understand what their
motivation is, but ultimately
as long as I can confirm the information
typically from two, three, four
different sources or I can get
documentation of the issue. I try not to
worry too much about what their ultimate
incentives are because some of the best
sources have completely terrible and
ulterior motives. I can't tell you how
many times I've had people who want to
screw somebody else over, even people
that you thought were their friends,
people in offices that literally were
next to each other and [clears throat]
somebody's ratting out the other. I had
situations where I've talked to board
members. I remember 11 member board,
10 people want to do a deal. One of them
thinks the deal is terrible idea. Thinks
if the deal is somehow in the public
domain that they're even considering it,
the public shareholders will, you know,
freak out, rebel, and that will turn on
the company. I've had the opposite
happen. I've had CEOs who thought that
their board was against them and but was
convinced that if the public markets
understood that they were contemplating
this, they would cheer and the board
would actually be sort of put into a
corner the opposite way to do a deal.
>> We just finished recording our Coca-Cola
episode. I don't know if you remember
this. The CEO of Coca-Cola
struck and announced announced a deal to
buy Quaker Oats. I worked on it that
night. I remember that night. I remember
that night like it was yesterday.
>> Yeah. And Quaker Oats owned Gatorade,
which was the the reason to do it.
>> The press releases were ready.
>> The two CEOs did a joint announcement
and then the Coca-Cola board killed it
after the announcement. [gasps]
Unbelievable. And then Pepsi ended up
buying Quaker Oats and Gatorade and it's
been a home run grand slam for them.
>> David, I love that you're telling Andrew
this. [laughter] I'm pretty sure Andrew
knows. No, but it's it's a great No, but
it's a great story and it's an example
of just how these things happen where,
>> you know, from the outside it all looks,
you know, very organized. Often times
you see a big announcement and there's a
press release, but behind the scenes
invariably there's a lot of different
egos and personalities that have their
own sort of plans, if you will. And as a
reporter, that's where most of the
stories come from. sometimes very senior
people, sometimes junior people. By the
way, junior people who hate their boss
or people who love their boss. It's up
and down. I think people have this view
that, you know, maybe you talk just to
the most senior people. That's typically
not the case. Oftentimes, a great story
starts at a very junior level. Often
times, a great story starts with I I
call the jilted somebody. So, there
could be an auction for something.
Someone's now lost the auction. Now,
they're jilted. the the jilted lover and
now if they have any incentive in life,
you know, they have no skin in the game
except maybe to upset the situation. Or
maybe there's a banker or a lawyer or an
accountant or somebody else who thinks
they've spent the last 10 years, you
know, sending Christmas cards to some
CEO thinking that this is their client,
taking them on some, you know, annual
conference or ski trip or something and
then all of a sudden finds out that, you
know, Goldman Sachs got the business and
not them. Well, now they have no skin in
the game and so they may be more
inclined to say, "Hey, Sorcin, you
should look into this." By the way, it's
very rare that someone just calls you up
and tells you this stuff. But I think if
you're sort of like in the in the flow
calling around talking about different
things, sometimes it just comes up in
conversation where, you know, people are
maybe willing to say or it's like one of
those they're having a bad day. You
might be talking about something else
and you might say, "What else is going
on?" And they might say, "Well, you
know, I got to tell you, I just got
totally screwed on this situation. You
should check out this other thing
because that's, you know," and that's
how a lot of
>> stories like this start.
>> You get a beat like that. You say, you
know, you need to confirm it with two,
three, four other sources.
How do you decide who to then call next?
Well, then I start to think through,
okay, who in my sort of network that
I've tried to develop relationships with
might [snorts] know about this before
going to the the tippy top. I always
think if you go straight to the top, you
will probably not
>> I know X. Can you confirm or deny?
>> Yeah, that doesn't really work. You sort
of need to get enough information,
usually at lower levels, to know, you
know, where the meetings are happening,
when they're planning on announcing,
what's the price, if there's a if it's a
stock for stock deal, what's the ratio,
is there a collar to the ratio. I mean,
I always say you want to get 80 to 90%
of the way there before asking the
company for comment, if you will. And I
will say that once you if you get to 90%
of the way there, oftentimes it behooves
the company in some ways to tell you
what's actually happening at that point.
>> Yeah. They'd rather have a hand in
shaping the narrative versus
not
>> typically.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, most companies do want a hand
in at least to tell you what's going on.
And look, my view is it makes a story
stronger. I want to know what what folks
think. I want to know what folks think
in a positive story. I definitely want
to know what folks think in a negative
story. And you know, I think it makes it
a better story to include whatever the
other side of the the story is.
>> Yep. Okay. So that we could talk about
this forever. And I'm interested in part
because David and I don't think about
ourselves as journalists and and yet we
have a lot of the same what we do rhymes
as sort of this business historians even
though we're not. just doing it about um
the past not the [laughter]
but it's similar you know different
people remember things very differently
as you know you know you're a historian
too
>> well it's very interesting to try to
think back I mean I just finished this
1929 book
>> which is fantastic by the way I'm in the
middle of it for anyone who hasn't read
it yet or listened it's it's great by
the way that I love that you narrate it
too in the audio book
>> you guys are in the audio books I'd
never done anything like that before but
what I was going to say is stories about
today you can go obviously talk to
people who are involved in them and they
can give you their perspective in the
moment. Stories 100 years ago, you know,
you're dependent on letters and diaries
and memos and notes and all this
archival material which you guys have
unearthed a whole number of times when
you guys have been working on uh
projects around companies that you know
have lengthy histories. I always try to
put myself in the shoes of the people
who are living and I found myself trying
to put myself in the shoes of the people
who were not living back then. What
would they be thinking? Why would they
be thinking it? How would that relate to
somebody who's alive today? I don't know
if you guys ever think about that, but
>> we definitely try to modernize is the
wrong word, but like make these
characters real, you know, talk about
them, reenact conversations like in the
way that people would naturally have
them today as opposed to, you know, you
read a history book and it sounds very
stilted. Trying to think of an example.
Maybe like Standard Oil. It really is
like incredible drama, right? and like
ruthless stuff that's happening. And
there's a way to talk about that in the
language they were using at the time
that might be a little less accessible
today. And there's a way to talk about
it of like you're not going to believe
what Henry Flagler did next. Like what
an animal that guy, you know? [laughter]
>> All right, listeners. Now is a great
time to thank one of our favorite
companies, Shopify.
>> Yes. And this is really fun because we
have been friends and fans of Shopify
for years. We just had Toby on ACQ2 to
talk about everything going on in AI and
everything that has happened at Shopify
in the six years now since we covered
the company on acquired.
>> It's been a pretty insane transformation
for them.
>> Yeah. So, back at their IPO, Shopify was
the go-to platform for entrepreneurs and
small businesses to get online. What's
happened since is that is still true.
And Shopify has also become the world's
leading commerce platform for
enterprises of any size, period.
>> Yeah. So, what's so cool about the
company is how they've managed to scale
without losing their soul. Even though
companies like Everlane and Vori and
even older established companies like
Mattel are doing billions of revenue on
Shopify, the company's mission is still
the same as the day Toby founded it to
create a world where more entrepreneurs
exist.
>> Oh, yeah. Ben, you got to tell everyone
your favorite enterprise brand that is
on Shopify.
>> Oh, I'm saving that for next episode. I
have a whole thing planned for episode
two of [laughter] this season.
>> Okay. Okay, great. Anyway, the reason
enterprises are now also using Shopify
is simple. Because businesses of all
sizes just sell more with Shopify. They
built this incredible ecosystem where
you can sell everywhere. Obviously, your
own site. That's always been true. But
now with Shopify, you can easily sell on
Instagram, YouTube, Tik Tok, Roblox,
Roku, Chat GPT, Perplexity, anywhere.
Plus, with Shop Pay, their accelerated
checkout, you get amazing conversion,
and it has a built-in user base of 200
million people who have their payment
information already stored with it.
Shopify is the ultimate example of not
doing what doesn't make your beer taste
better. Even if you're a huge brand,
you're not going to build a better
e-commerce platform for your product.
But that is what Toby and Shopify's
entire purpose is. So, you should use
them.
>> Yes. So, whether you're just getting
started or already at huge scale, head
on over to shopify.com/acquired.
That's sopy.com/acquired.
And just tell them that Ben and David
sent you.
>> Well, Andrew, I was going to ask you,
how many years was it of the newsletter
before starting the Dealbook Summit? So
we started the summit in 2011 in fact.
So we'd basically been doing it 10
years, 10 years in. And really the
summit was just the idea of can we bring
the pages of Dealbook
to life, right? Could we actually take
all of these characters who we were
writing about every day who oftentimes
were replying to us on the email and put
them on a stage and talk to them in a
really human way so that people could
and the public could sort of see them
and see the way they think about the big
issues of the day. That's I always love
conversations about ultimately why
people think what they think less about
I mean I care about you know the
information they're imparting but I feel
like especially when you think about
people of great influence and power and
all of that even if you disagree with
them understanding why they think what
they think I think has huge value just
to our collective understanding. I I've
thought that watching the last few years
of Dealbook Summit interviews, I mean
whether it's Elon or Sundar or Jeff
Bezos, it's not like they're sitting
there breaking news. It's not an act of
reporting to do the summit, but you
really do get inside the psyche. You get
a much like richer texture of why
they're doing what they're doing from a
hourong interview.
>> A lot of them go between a half hour and
an hour. And in in terms of the
reporting, you're right. It's not, you
know, oftentimes news of the moment,
though sometimes they do make news in
that moment that make headlines.
>> Alex Cooper dropped her uh energy drink.
>> She did. She did. But to me, ultimately,
it's it's reporting that ends up
explaining what they did in the past and
oftenimes gets used later in what they
do in the future. So sometimes you'll
see little nuggets, little quotes,
little other things that end up in the
newspaper, you know, six months later
after they've announced something else
that they're doing or or something
happens and and those quotes are used as
a way to explain them.
>> You know, it's funny. I haven't had a
chance to read today's dealbook yet, but
I'm very curious in the story that you
helped report around Jeff Bezos's new
venture that that I saw just a headline
of this morning. Does that call back at
all to your interview with him where
he's talking about all the heavy
industry that they want to move off
Earth and what's going to be necessary
to to accomplish all that?
>> Yes. and yes and because he made a
particular point of leaning in to AI and
I remember being a little surprised
about sort of his interest in artificial
intelligence and how he he clearly
wanted to talk more and more about
artificial intelligence and I remember
thinking to myself well you know Amazon
doesn't have its own large language
model right now you know arguably it's
behind I mean I think a a lot of people
thought that at the time And here's a
guy who's says he's focused on space. So
why is he all of a sudden talking about
AI and talking about how he thinks AI is
like fire? I remember him saying he
thinks it's, you know, it's that
important.
So last night when I learned about this,
I thought, "Oh, okay. This all makes a
little bit more sense now." Well, and
he's going to become the co-CEO of the
company, which to me is remarkable
because he hasn't been the he was not
the CEO of Blue Origin. He was the
founder, but he he had he had hired
someone to be the CEO. And the last time
he'd been the CEO of a company obviously
was was Amazon. So the the idea that
this is what he's effectively doubling
down on and where he's going to focus
his own personal energy, I think is
pretty interesting.
>> When you were starting the summit back
in 2011, did you think about it as like
we have this amazing
readership and engagement of people
replying and like let's bring it to
life. let's make something really
amazing around this. Or did you think
about it as like, hey, there are a bunch
of these business summits out there
to varying degrees of great and maybe
there's an opportunity for us to become
the premier version of this.
>> I think it was a combination of both of
those things. And the truth was back
then there weren't nearly as many
conferences either. The biggest at the
time was probably what was the Wall
Street Journal D conference which
ultimately turned into Recode and that
was focused really on tech more than
anything. And I think we thought the
opportunity was this sort of confluence
of you know finance and Wall Street tech
and policy out of Washington. So our
first deal book Jamie Diamond I think
was the opening speaker. Lloyd
Blankfine, Mark Andre,
Eric Schmidt, Dick Costello who's
running um Twitter at the time. Those
were some of like the big leaders back
then who we had. And then I think you
know the second year Ken Griffin and Dan
Loe Pep Barara who was at that point
running the Southern District of New
York.
So [snorts] that was really the the
backstory of what we were we were trying
to do and we thought we thought there
was an opportunity to elevate all of
this but I I don't think we knew where
it could all go.
>> To me this is the flagship set of
interviews for the year. I mean each
interview that you do is on par with the
one big interview that David and I would
do for the year. We will maybe do two
and you do eight of them backtoback in
one day. How do you prep for that? What
does this process look like?
>> I would say each interview usually takes
me anywhere between 15 and maybe 30
hours of prep. Typically, first of all,
I keep a little notes app in my phone
for all sorts of people. Some the people
who make it to the stage, some people
who are sort of on my wish list that for
whatever reason don't happen. But I keep
little notes throughout the year of
little quotes of little articles, little
notes and things about them so that I
can sort of go back to that later on. I
end up spending a lot of time talking to
other people who know different
individuals about them. Sometimes it's
as much about knowing certain facts as
it is about like their disposition and
sort of what's really driving them or
motivating them. Just trying to
understand them. Some of these people
I've known myself for many years. Some
of them I've never met in my life
before.
I do try to talk to them if I have never
met them before prior like on a zoom or
something or maybe try to meet them.
Oftentimes they do have teams, you know,
PR teams and other people who who reach
out and so I do like to sort of
understand them if I can so that it's
not totally cold uh for the first time.
I I never share questions with anybody
as as a policy and as a rule as a
journalist.
We do often talk about themes like
thematically, you know, probably want to
like touch a couple of things just
because you also want to get them
thinking a little bit, you know, in that
moment ahead of time so that they're not
coming to all of this completely cold. I
don't know if you ever interviewed
somebody where they had no clue why
you're you're planning to talk to them.
[laughter]
>> You know, the closest was Barry Diller
at Radio City, but he's so great. you
know, we kept trying to reach out like,
"Hey, do you want to chat? You want to
prep? We can send you stuff." And he's
like, "No, no, no."
>> We we did ultimately do a quick call
from our dressing room when we
[laughter] were in rehearsal.
>> Right. But it's just even even that, by
the way, like I often think that the
most important time of an interview,
oddly enough, and it's actually hard in
in the context of dealbook because I'm
on stage most of the time and I'm only
sort of coming off for a minute or two
after, you know, in between sets
sometimes, is in those two minutes
prior. You know, on TV when we're doing
squawk, I often think that the most
important time is while the commercial
break is happening and someone's sitting
in the chair because people come in,
they're a little anxious, a little
nervous, and trying to get them to
settle and trying to get them to be the
best they can be, I think, is almost
more important than what ultimately I
end up asking them on the stage. Like,
however you can sort of meet them where
they are before it begins, I think is a
is a huge thing that I try to do. That's
so true. Uh, Chase Center. Mark Ben made
our conversation with Mark Zuckerberg at
Chase Center. It was it was all in the
wings beforehand. Andrew, I'm sure you
have this every time in the wings.
>> No. And it's like, how do you meet that
other person where they are? And and
everybody comes to it totally
differently. There's some people who
come, you know, either with great
energy.
There are other people who come, you
know, completely scared out of their
mind. You you can learn a lot by shaking
a hand. By the way, you get a sweaty
sweaty hand, you know what's about to
happen. Um, [laughter]
>> so our our Squawkbox experience, we felt
very I mean, look, David and I are
business historians and we've watched so
much tape of Squawkbox and walking onto
the set almost felt like this weird like
Disneyland experience, like whoa, this
is what it looks like in real life. Uh,
and so there's a little bit of this
heightened energy for me walking in. You
guys did a great job of making us feel
very at ease. We had another TV
appearance where we walked in and the
host just stared down at his his iPad
the whole time and like literally
ignored us one foot away and Oh, wow.
>> It was complete night and day
experience.
>> Well, thank you for that. We we always
say we we think we should start a
streaming show during the commercial
breaks because we what happens during
the commercial breaks is oftenimes as
fun if not crazier than what happens and
we're all on it's like very rare where
we're just looking down an iPad.
Sometimes I I I will empathize or
sympathize with whatever that person was
that your experiences with because there
there have been times where I've some
like news is breaking or something's
happening and you feel like you have
this like 90 seconds between commercial
and you have to like study the thing so
you know what's going on. I don't know
if that was your circumstance
>> that this was not that. But I could see
that being a very valid reason to
>> I've I've had that and I've felt bad
about it because I there have been a
couple of times where I've like stared
straight at the screen and not really
looked up and I probably should have and
and maybe the person next to me was like
what is going on here? And I've been
like in my own thoughts.
>> You guys in Squawkbox like you put a lot
of thought and effort into the guest
experience. Like you had a car pick us
up, you know, we were greeted in the in
the waiting room. It's very nice there.
We're offered something to drink. We're
escorted in. We all say hi. Like it's
just uh
>> Oh, you don't have to do your own
makeup.
>> Yeah, you don't have to do your own
makeup. Like this is night and day
versus the rest of the industry.
>> We want it to be fun. And and I think
actually one of the reasons people keep
coming back and want to come on the show
is like for the most part I think people
have a ball doing it. Even by the way
when we have disagreements or debates or
whatever it is, the experience is is is
a fun experience. Well, I can tell you.
I mean, as as guests, it felt like you
really valued our time and experience.
It didn't feel like we were the
commodity filler for, you know, the the
that 10-minute segment. It was like,
>> but that's the thing. There is no
commodity filler. I mean, honestly, you
know, whether you're Barry Diller or
Jamie Diamond or, you know, an analyst
who's who's studying a stock, I think we
all think that each of these component
parts over the course of the three hours
has huge value to the broadcast.
>> Okay. So, going back to prep.
>> Okay.
>> Give us the lineup for Dealbook this
year. It's about to happen. We're
recording this. I think we're going to
release it right after the the videos
come out.
So, we've got everybody from Secretary
Bessant, which I imagine is going to be
a conversation about obviously our
economy, what's going on in Washington,
tariffs.
We've got an interview coming up with
David Ellison, who of course is in the
middle of having just bought Paramount,
trying to buy Tom Warner Discovery, and
whatever you think the rest of the chess
board looks like. You know, obviously
his father at Oracle is involved with
all sorts of AI efforts. They're getting
involved with Tik Tok. I'm going to be
talking to Erica Kirk, the widow of
Charlie Kirk,
which I'm really looking forward to. I
actually knew Charlie. You know, I
remember watching her
at the funeral. I think her words and
the way she talked about wanting to
forgive the killer of her husband, I
thought was unbelievable.
and you know she's now going to be
running turning point which is hugely
influential in the conservative
Republican movement. So I think trying
to understand the way she's thinking
about that could be really really
interesting.
Mary Bar probably the most influential
powerful female CEO in America runs
General Motors. She's in the middle of
it all. I mean talk about manufacturing
in America and the whole tariff story.
Um Dario Modi who runs Anthropic.
I think he's one of the most personally
interesting people in artificial
intelligence and he's been willing to
speak out and say things that I think a
lot of others have not. He has some very
provocative views about the implications
of AI, even what some of the things like
Nvidia and others and the political
class is doing. President Trump has made
some comments about him. So, I'm I'm
very curious. He's also had a large hand
in every single one of the major
foundational AI, you know, players.
Google, [clears throat]
OpenAI, Anthropic, all have his
fingerprints on them.
>> All have his fingerprints. So, I think
spending some time with him, I think, is
going to be really interesting. Alex
Karp, who's the co-founder with Peter
Teal of Palunteer, runs Palunteer, and I
think that's been considered one of the
hottest stocks clearly, but also one of
the most interesting stories and
companies in the country. Uh, we're
going to do a conversation with what I
call the young OG and the old OG of
finance. So, we're going to put Brian
Armstrong and Larry Frink together.
[laughter]
>> Are you doing every one of the
interviews you mentioned so far?
>> I do all of the interviews. So, every
interview on the stage I do. We started
doing that maybe in the third year of
the conference.
>> Okay. So, keep going. And then we've got
arguably the most influential,
powerful influencer in the world, Jimmy
Donaldson, better known as Mr. Beast.
So, my children want to come to Dealbook
this year, uh, for that very reason.
And then we're going to have a
conversation with Gavin Newsome, of
course, the governor of California,
who's probably been the most outspoken
and viciferous politician when it comes
to being on the other side of the Trump
administration.
>> Okay, you're doing all this in one day.
>> And Halib Berry, Halib Berry, Halib
Berry, [laughter] Halib Berry.
>> How could you forget Halib?
>> Can't forget Halle B. So, yeah. So, I'm
going to do this. I'm usually on stage
from, call it, 9 in the morning to 6:00
or 6:30 p.m. And it's an all day
marathon. It's like sprinting a
marathon.
>> I assume you're going to take the day
off from Squawkbox.
>> I take the the morning off. I usually go
on for like five minutes in the morning
and sort of tease what's going on all
day.
>> But yeah, okay. You go on Squawkbox
before all this. This is insane.
>> Yeah. But I'm just thinking about the
just the amount of prep and like I mean
truly my the CPU of my brain is
redlinining going into a Zuckerberg
interview or a Balmer interview or a
Jensen interview where like my job and
David's job David's job is more the
story. My job is to more the reflection
and the analysis is to make sure that we
leave that interview with did we give
the listener important takeaways? Like
do they have something where they're
like whoa I learned something new I
didn't know before. I understand this at
a deeper level and it it takes
everything I have to do that and I
really do feel the the dealbook
interviews are of that caliber where you
get to indulge in this person's psyche
for that period of time. What are your
tips and tricks?
>> For me, I have to absorb all of the
information in advance. I need to almost
like know it at a visceral level
so that it's not about notes or anything
else. It's it's just like you know it.
Um because there often isn't a lot of
time even between interviews to sort of
recalibrate and rethink sort of okay
I've got to start this new one. So it it
really is for me about sort of feeling
it if if you will and having read so
much and having spent so much time
thinking about the different ways it
could go. And I do think a little bit
the sort of analogy I often use is I try
to plot out in my mind and on paper
actually what the flight path is knowing
that the weather's going to change. But
you know I know that I'm starting at JFK
and I know I'm ending at LAX and I know
I'm probably going to land at O'Hare,
maybe Atlanta, Denver and you know
Dallas and we may not pay ATC along the
way. So, who knows what detours are
going to happen,
>> but I also know the weather's going to
change. And so, you know, my ambition to
get to O'Hare first might get abandoned
pretty quickly and we might have to
divert to Atlanta first and then how am
I going to pivot back if I need to if I
want to go back there. So, I think that
for me it's sort of like having a little
bit of a path, but then listening to me
and you guys do this so brilliantly. I
think the whole whole trick is to listen
because there's going to be so much new
information that's going to come up
that's going to surprise you. But then
if you've if you're prepped, that new
information is going to inspire you to
then maybe drop some other piece that
you had read about or thought about
before in that moment. And if you can
get the subject to sort of smile and be
like, "Wait, you you knew that or you
were able to connect that dot, then the
whole rest of the interview is going to
be much more interesting because
suddenly they're a fan."
>> I remember uh interviewing Bill Gates is
many, many years ago.
And I'll tell you what the tell was. It
wasn't a smile. It was he slouched in
the chair. At one point in the
conversation, it was as if he had turned
the chair into a hammock and he was just
lying there and I thought, "Okay, we're
here now. We can do this." I just feel
like I I'm never as smart or as maniacal
or as empire building or as any of these
people, but I can be
better researched about their journey
than just about anyone out there. And so
if you can get that like game recognized
game moment where they're like, "Oh, you
you really did a lot of work on this, I
just feel like that that's where a lot
of the the beauty comes from after
that."
>> Well, I think that a lot of people have
an enormous amount of mutual respect for
you guys because they they see it. They
see the work and the work is so evident
when they listen to you because the
embedded both in questions when you're
doing interviews or obviously embedded
in the storytelling that you do is all
of this information which can only be
acquired by demonstrable research that
frankly can't be done by AI.
>> That's a great point. You're bringing
your whole body of work to the interview
and your subjects have that experience,
too.
>> Hopefully. Yeah. I mean, that's what
that's what you want. Yeah.
>> All right. Let's let's talk logistics
and then I want to talk about the
business. So, at CNBC, you have a
producer team. We got to interface with
some great people who helped us prepped
who who prepped you. There's
teleprompterss, there's notes. What does
the producer side of Dealbook Summit
look like? So the producer side of
Dealbook is we do have a a fantastic
events team that's doing a lot of sort
of the organizational work just because
there's obviously you know hundreds of
people in the audience. There's all the
participants who are on the main stage.
We also have a series of these things
called task forces and groundbreakers.
There's a lot of sort of moving pieces
for the for the interviews that I do.
Most of the notes I'm creating myself. I
do have a producer who helps me with
some things, some, you know, early
research as I'm sort of gathering to put
things together.
But that's really the the extent of of
the setup. It's not like there's some,
you know, huge apparatus that's that's
building building notes or questions. I
often by the way do lean on there's some
great great beat reporters at the times
who obviously live and breathe
particular topics and and cos and
businesses and I'll reach out to them
and say you know what are the five
questions you think absolutely you know
need to be asked or are there particular
places
that you think I can go or or different
ways to get there because sometimes it's
about knowing where the speed bump is
for the other person and then figuring
out a way how to get to the same place
without them feeling that bump.
>> I know exactly what you're talking
about. There's an area of sensitivity
for a person that is adjacent to a topic
that's really interesting. And how do
you get to that really interesting topic
without making the whole thing awkward
and and and depriving the audience of a
good interview,
>> you know? And and I want the other
person to hit the ball back. Like I
always say, you know, here we are
talking about airplanes. It's also a
little bit like a tennis rally. You want
the ball to go back and forth. So even
if I hit the ball into the corner of the
court and yeah, we're we're seeing the
person run to go get the ball, I'm still
rooting for them to hit the ball back.
Like I do want them to hit the ball
back. And so it's a question of, you
know, how do you place the ball there so
that they can hit it back in many ways
and that you're going to get a really
revealing interesting answer as a
result. And sometimes it's complicated
because I do feel again and I'm curious
how you guys think about it in the
context of, you know, I'm a journalist.
You guys say you're not a journalist.
And sometimes there's questions or
issues that are really difficult that I
want to and feel like I I want the
interviewee to grapple with. And how do
you get them to grapple with it in a way
where they don't necessarily either feel
defensive or they don't feel they're
being attacked or or what have you, but
that you're actually learning about the
way they think about that particular
issue. I find, by the way, one technique
that does work is sometimes I'll find a
quote that somebody else has written or
said that's critical either about the
company or the person or some issue or
raises an issue. And I'll read the quote
aloud. And by doing that, two things are
happening. One is it's it's not me
saying this. It's not here I am accusing
you of something. It's there's this
thing. It's in the public domain. The
public is thinking about this. So it's
also we're all everybody's thinking
about this. How do you think about it?
[snorts]
And the other reason why I find it's
actually very effective is typically the
other person has thought about it a lot.
Even if it's somewhat triggering or
painful, it's that they've they've read
the quote. They've grappled with that
quote oftentimes for weeks on end
because they're either annoyed by it or
they think there's another another. And
so, so it's not an impossible question
to answer. David's over there chuckling
because I have tried to steal a very
specific phrase from you, which is you
depersonalize it. You you bring
something up and it's not Andrew saying
it. It's there's this quote. When you
hear that, you would say what?
>> You would say what? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
[laughter]
I just love it.
>> You literally call it, you know, the
Andrea Rosar kid phrasing. [laughter]
>> My My wife is going to laugh when she
listens to this part of the podcast.
>> Why? Tell us.
>> Because I use that with a lot of things.
[laughter]
>> I could imagine if you are your, you
know, your spouse that would be
extremely annoying.
>> What would you say? How do you think
about that?
>> Yeah. Yeah. No, I have a whole I have a
whole bunch of friends who who always
sort of mock little phrases. [laughter]
>> How do you guys think about the set and
setting for these? Like you have a whole
set of choices that you could make about
number of int of attendees, who those
attendees are, the stage design. You
like it's very sparse, but you could be
more intricate. I'm sure these are all
intentional choices.
>> So, I think the audience is as important
as who's on the stage. And I often say
that a lot of the people in the audience
could clearly be on the stage. And one
of the reasons that I think people who
are on the stage want to be on the stage
and often times want to win over the
people in the audience is because they
are peers in many ways. I think we try
to
have a good mix between
sort of business leaders,
the political class,
the sort of academic universe,
the sort of journalist in public
intellectual culture
kind of kind of group so that there's
sort of a really interesting mix in the
room. And I think we've every year tried
to to elevate that. I love the Appel
Room at Jazz at Lincoln Center. I think
it's just one of the most beautiful
rooms in New York City. It overlooks
Columbus Circle. It has natural light.
There's something super intimate about
it. You can put close to 4 or 500 people
in that room and it doesn't feel like
that. So, I think there's something very
special about that. And then the truth
is we just use a sort of massive LED
screen behind us because you can almost
paint whatever you want on it at any
moment and that's the set.
>> And yet it mostly has this one
particular graphics package that is
heavily identifiable has been this way
for a decade or or more and I feel like
I can spot a photo from the Dealbook
Summit a mile away. That's just like a
branding like we because and those
pictures get used repeatedly throughout
the year and and I think now people look
at that background and they just know oh
that happened at Debook.
>> I was actually at a gala dinner in that
room a couple months ago and it was like
the most bizarre thing of like you know
it's a totally different setup. There
are all these round gala tables there.
there's you know like a uh and it's like
this feels very familiar you know
[laughter]
but an entirely different context
>> for a certain business political
technology segment of the world that
it's almost like that room is typ cast
like that that room can't have another
role in the world
>> for our crowd yes
>> yes [laughter] yes
>> okay so this is acquired what we do is
we analyze businesses what is the
business of dealbook and and and the
Dealbook Summit, how does it play a
role?
>> So, look, I think the business of
Dealbook is the newsletter franchise,
which you know, we publish six days a
week to effectively over a million of
what I think of as some of the most
influential people in the world, both
business leaders, policy people, culture
leaders, and it's just a spectacular
audience. It's driven by uh advertising.
It is not a it's not a paid you know
separate paid subscription.
>> Is it a dealbook specific advertising
team or part of the times all up
advertising?
>> It's part of the times but there are
people who are more focused on selling
advertising and sponsorship related to
dealbook but clearly across the board
there's people in the advertising
department that that work on that. And
then the event itself is really as I
said a manifestation of the newsletter
and and that unto itself also has a huge
sponsorship component. A lot of the
sponsors who are involved in that are
involved in the newsletter and other
parts of the times and things like that.
So that is the business.
>> So 100% sponsor supported no direct
monetization of the the entire thing.
>> There's no subscription model for the
newsletter for me.
The truth is we've always wanted if we
could to punch above our weight in terms
of reaching the most influential people
in the world. That that was really our
goal more than anything else. It was it
was really just it it was about reach
and [clears throat] we found that we can
make the economics of the business work
pretty well under this scenario.
>> And does that apply to Summit too? Like
can you buy a ticket to Summit or you
don't buy tickets? It's only
sponsorships. our readers can apply
effectively to buy a ticket for the
event. And so we do maintain a a group
of tickets that are available for
readers and the public who want to
participate.
>> But you're still curating the room.
>> But we're still curating the room. And
we're also super intent on making the
event as public and available as
possible to the public. So, you know,
within 24 hours of the event, you know,
all of the interviews are available for
free, not just on NY Times, but on
YouTube and other platforms.
>> I was thinking about what David and I
have done, and people will often
describe us as founders or entrepreneurs
or, you know, talk about taking the
leap, leaving venture capital to take
the leap to do this. I really don't feel
we took a leap. I I feel we are the sort
of least risk tolerant founders I've
ever met. This this all happens slowly,
accidentally, and with almost no risk.
And other than our time, I'm curious for
you, Andrew, what to you has been a
leap? When have you really put yourself
out there? When have you bet on yourself
versus,
you know, it was actually a pretty
conservative choice and it just happened
to work out well? I think for me
probably the biggest leaps
were writing Too Big to Fail. I think
that was a leap for me. I remember when
I first got the advance for the book. I
thought I remember telling my wife,
"We're going to have to give the money
back." Like I I wasn't sure I could
write a book. I didn't know if it would
work. I just thought there's just no way
that I'm going to be able to do this.
So, I think writing that book was a
leap. I think actually writing 1929 was
a leap. You might not think it was a
leap, but for me it was a huge leap
because I had never actually really
written about history and people that
weren't alive. And I was super scared
the whole time. And really the first
couple years I wasn't even sure I was
going to really write the book. I didn't
know what I was doing. I think my kids
thought I was wasting an extraordinary
amount of time.
I think one of the leaps when I
co-created Billions, I wrote that with
Brian Koffman, Dave Lavine, and we did
that all on spec. That original pilot
script was total leap. Like we had no
idea whether we were going to get anyone
to buy that thing
>> on spec means you you do all the work to
to write it.
>> You didn't have a studio giving you a
development fee.
>> No, you didn't have a development deal
or something in advance. It was
literally you were writing and hoping
that somebody would buy the work, would
buy the project once you once you had it
all on paper. So I think those things
were probably a leap by the way. To me,
maybe even going on TV was was a leap. I
didn't know whether that would work or
not. That could have failed pretty
miserably. Still could, right? Um,
>> seems unlikely at this point, but
>> Well, actually, I I thought this was the
direction you were going to go because I
was going to ask, it seems like a risk
to become a celebrity. Before you were a
journalist, your face wasn't everywhere.
Now you're Andrew Ross Sorcin. Did TV do
that? So, it's a little complicated for
me to answer this only because
I was going on TV to talk about my
articles for a very long time. So, you
know, back in 2002, 2003 and four, I was
going on the Today Show back when Katie
Kirk and Matt Lowour were the hosts and
back with Charlie Rose. And I remember
during the Martha Stewart trial, sitting
at the desk there with with Katie.
And so for a long time I felt like there
were times I would, you know, get on the
subway and someone would say, "Oh, I
just saw you on, you know, such and such
or this thing or that thing." So it's
probably elevated today to some degree.
I think there's more people who saw me
on the subway now. I don't think I ever
really thought about that part. I don't
think I've ever really thought about
that part. It's maybe to my own
detriment because I don't realize I
think a lot of people if you if we were
to like go out to dinner I don't really
realize
that there are people who know who you
are. I find it weird and so I don't even
really think about it or acknowledge it
until I sort of have to. I guess I used
to have people come up to me on the
street with my kids and my kids would
always say, "Dad, is is that a friend of
yours? How do you how do you know that
person?"
>> Yeah.
>> And I'd be like, "I don't know. I think
maybe they watch the show in the
morning. I'm not sure.
>> Well, hopefully you have um the same
version of this that we have, which is
our audience are like super smart, super
curious, super wonderful people who
we're always happy to talk to.
>> Totally. I mean, it's I find it so
exciting when people come up to you and
they want to give you a high five or
they say they see you on the show or
this or that.
>> And while we're on the topic of TV, I do
want to ask you about Billions. I loved
Billions, especially I think the first
few seasons are the some of the best
television that has ever been created.
That succession, I mean, I'm I'm a
sucker for that genre, but god, uh,
Bobby Axelrod is such an amazing
character. How did you work that into
your
life? And what was your level of
involvement in Billions? How did you
work it into everything else you were
doing? And did you think in any way that
it was a a risk? Yeah, you might start
getting some replies from your, you
know, your sources via like, you rip me
off for this, you know, character
>> or that affects your your brand as
someone who covers the truth, not who
makes up these fantastical worlds.
>> So, I had been a co-producer of Too Big
to Fail. We had made a movie of Too Big
to Fail for HBO. Paul Gamati, who ended
up in Billions, obviously is Chuck
Rhodess, was Ben Bernanki in in Too Big
to Fail. I loved that whole process of
being on set and working on that film. I
thought I learned more. I thought the
people at HBO were amazing. Everything
about that uh was such an extraordinary
experience. And so I was thinking to
myself, you know, is there some other
kind of project I could do that's in the
television world. And at the time,
you know, I had not really seen a show
that put the world of hedge funds on
their on its feet. And I thought that
could be a really exciting genre and
world. The truth is actually when I
first went to LA to visit with my agent,
he told me this was a terrible idea
because people hate people on Wall
Street. They just look at computer
screens all day. It's got to be it's
going to be boring. Blah blah blah blah
blah. And back then I was just really
thinking more about a maybe a character
that's kind of like Bobby Axar and sort
of like around a family, a hedge fund
and their family. And then I remember
coming home and my wife was watching a
rerun of Law and Order on USA Network
and I said to her, "You know what kind
of shows work? Legal shows work. People
love a great procedural. Why is that?
They just like like eat these shows up."
And then I thought, okay, what happens
if you could set these two worlds
against each other and maybe you'd fall
in love with the hedge fund uh guy and
maybe and I had, by the way, covered a
lot of white collar crime, too, where
sometimes the prosecutors who you
thought were doing things in the name of
right weren't always doing things right.
So I thought that was sort of like a
unique way to to approach the issue. I
don't think I was so worried about the
fictional nature of it. And my role was
really in in helping sort of put the
whole thing on its feet. And then of
course I met Brian and David and they
were the showrunners of the program and
they really took the whole thing and ran
and and were really great. I mean if you
love the show over all those seasons uh
give them the credit.
>> Was it strange casting yourself?
>> Strange casting myself
>> there. There is a character that seems
to rhyme [clears throat] with what you
>> I didn't think he really was me. I never
thought about that way. No, I never
really did. I know you're talking about,
but I never I for whatever reason I
never thought he was pretending to be
me.
>> Okay, so we got Dealbook, CNBC, The
Summit, The Books, Billions.
How do you think about the business that
you are running? Like what is the
business of Andrew Rossin?
>> There is a media empire here.
>> I don't know if it's an empire. I think
of it more as I'm a journalist. I'm
writing and reporting on and talking
about what's happening in real time in
this fascinating universe of sort of
business meets policy both in terms of
what I do on television, what I do at
the New York Times, and then are there
things I can do that layer on top of
those things? And they're all
interrelated really, whether it be,
you know, a fictional TV show or a book
project or something else.
It's just another way of telling the
story and reaching more people and
reaching them in different ways. I love
when someone comes up to me on the
street and tells me that a story that
they read that I wrote in the New York
Times like a decade ago that somehow,
you know, meant something to them. But I
also love the idea that somebody could
watch Too Big to Fail on HBO, you know,
on the streaming service now. You go
back and watch it and they're like, I've
watched it 10 times and it gave me, you
know, I remember this and this and this
and this. or someone who reads 1929 and
learns about these different characters
and people. I think I'm just sort of
trying to take this lens that I have on
the world, which is typically the lens
of people and characters and trying to
understand what incentivizes people and
motivates people to do things
and trying to apply that to all sorts of
things. You know, an economist might
look at the world of 1929 or 2008 or a
lot of the things that are going on our
world and talk about in the context of
economic cycles and systems and all
sorts of things like that. And I don't
really think about it like that. I think
that that people make decisions, some
good decisions, some bad decisions that
lead to economic cycles and systems and
all sorts of other things. And if you
can understand the people and why they
do what they do and you can really feel
them,
it'll change your outlook on everything
and make it a lot more understandable.
We get to meet amazing folks like you in
the media world. And the people who are
the very best, the most respected,
produced the great work across different
mediums
basically have the same answer as you of
like, "No, I'm not thinking about this
strategically of like, oh, my agent said
I should add a podcast and so that'll
amplify." It's like, "No, no, no. I'm
I'm doing like there's a there's a thing
that I'm trying to do. I'm trying to get
to some aspect of the human experience
and I can paint in some different
canvases doing that, but I'm always
doing the same thing." What are some uh
recommended best practices that you
disagree with? What are some things that
as canonical wisdom or like like David
threw out?
>> Oh yeah. Oh, you should have authors,
you know, amplify what you're doing.
>> Well, so you guys probably think I do a
lot of things.
>> I think you do a tremendous amount of
things and I'm trying to figure out what
the trade-offs are. There seems to be no
trade-off anywhere.
>> Well, no. What I was going to say is I I
feel like I do a lot of things and then
I say no to a lot a lot a lot of things
and that I can't do anything well unless
I spend an extraordinary amount of time
on each of the things. So,
you know, people have said, "Oh, should
you do a podcast or something like
that?" And I'm like, "How would I do a
podcast? That that takes an
extraordinary amount of time. Um could
you do more Dealbook Summits, you know,
around the world or something?" And I'm
like, "Well, how are you?" So what I'm
trying to do is but it took me 8 years
to write that book 1929. So I feel like
in my own way each thing takes a sort of
remarkable amount of focus for me to do
it well. People say all the time you
should not take things personally.
You hear that a lot like don't take it
personally.
I think you have to take everything
personally. [laughter]
I think that the The people that I know
who are the most successful people in
the world take everything personally.
And it's because they care. They care so
deeply.
And
I know that for me, I take it all
personally. And it hurts sometimes to
take it that personally. But I think
that
it's the only way. It's if if you're not
taking it personally, I don't I don't I
don't know what you're doing. I' I've
just tried to think of like what a what
a common criticism of Andrew Rossin
could be. What what do you hear?
>> So, you know, within the journalistic
world, there are people who think that
you you shouldn't know your sources or
not know your sources, but some people
would say you know your sources too too
well.
You're too close to your sources.
So, I'd say within the world of
journalism, you know, one critique is
you're too close to your sources. You
know, my view is
that the only way to tell the sort of
truly human nuance story of the way they
think is to know them. You have to know
them somehow.
And I think you can do that and still be
objective. You know, there's lots of
times, and it's complicated for me. Um,
there are lots of times where I have to
write stories that are negative or
critical or where I even myself just
fundamentally disagree with the other
person on a particular issue.
And I think or I like to think that the
people that I report on
respect that and actually respect it
more. one man's view. But
>> I I've I've had conversations with
people who you've reported on where they
have said that to me of like yeah man
[sighs]
hate the like I you know I understand it
you know like if they were talking about
a piece on them by somebody else be like
ah that you know so or whatever but like
with you it's like they respect they
don't understand.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> You know I think a great journalist in a
way is is a fair weather fan. And what
that means though is, you know, if they
do something right, you should say attab
boy. And if they do something wrong, you
should explain why it's wrong. Now, if
you're just doing one or the other,
that's where I think journalists get
into trouble.
>> That's a great framework on the take
everything personally. And when you
said, you know, what are you doing? It
sort of gets at what is the purpose of
all this? Is it to do great work? Like
on your tombstone, do you want to die
and it says he did great work? Is it he
lived a great life like he had a lot of
fun, he spent time with his family, he
did the things he enjoyed, or he made
the world better. Whether the like don't
take it personally advice kind of really
depends on which of those things you
think this is all for. And if the goal
is do great work, you have to take
everything personally. Yeah, I hope I'm
trying to do a little bit of each of
those things, but I think one of them
clearly is doing great work. Hopefully,
one of them is having a lot of fun doing
that great work. And if I can leave the
world a little bit better off at the end
of the day, even better. So, and I think
it'd be very hard to accomplish any of
those things if you didn't take it
personally. [snorts]
>> Yeah. Well, Andrew, I just want to thank
you so much for having this conversation
with us. We said, "We would love to have
you on right when 1929 came out." And I
realized I kind of had no unique angle
to talk about 1929 because I was
woefully behind on reading the the
pre-advanced copy. So hopefully um
listeners, you learned something from
this because this was our attempt to
say, "Andrew is so interesting. We we
loved having you at Radio City. We love
getting to spend time with you this
summer. What could we do together that
would feel timely, cool, unique, and
this is what we came up with."
>> Well, this has been a ball for me. And
you guys know I've been listening to you
for a very very long time and I think
it's remarkable what you've created and
it's just such a a privilege to to now
know you and to to call you friends. So
thank you.
>> Thanks Andrew.
>> Likewise. Thank you.